GH-37756: [Format][Docs] Document IPC Compression (#43950)
apache/arrow: docs/source/format/Columnar.rst

    buffer 13: col2    data

Compression
-----------

> There are three different options for record batch body
> buffers compression: buffers can be uncompressed, can use
> ``lz4`` or ``zstd`` compression codec. All buffers in the flat
> sequence of the message body are compressed separately with the
> same codec.

Reviewer: Small suggestion to improve clarity. This makes it more verbose, but I think it's worthwhile:
```suggestion
There are three different options for compression of record batch
body buffers: Buffers can be uncompressed, buffers can be
compressed with the``lz4`` compression codec, or buffers can
be compressed with the ``zstd`` compression codec. Buffers in
the flat sequence of a message body must be either all
uncompressed or all compressed separately using the same codec.
```

The difference between compressed and uncompressed buffers in the
serialized form is as follows:

* If the buffers in the ``RecordBatch`` message are **compressed**

  - the ``data header`` includes the length and memory offset
    of each **compressed buffer** in the record batch's body

  - the ``body`` includes a flat sequence of **compressed memory
    buffers** together with the **length of uncompressed buffer**

>     stored in the first 8 bytes for each buffer in the sequence

Reviewer 2: should we denote lsb or msb here?

Author: Something like "... **length of uncompressed buffer** as a 64-bit little-endian signed integer stored ..."?

* If the buffers in the ``RecordBatch`` message are **uncompressed**

  - the ``data header`` includes the length and memory offset
    of each **uncompressed buffer** in the record batch's body

  - the ``body`` includes a flat sequence of **uncompressed memory
    buffers** with the first 8 bytes empty or equal to ``-1`` to

>     indicate that the buffer is uncompressed

Reviewer: Small suggestion: consistently use the phrase "buffer" or "memory buffer" instead of mixing and matching

    buffer 13: col2    data

Compression
-----------

There are three different options for compression of record batch
body buffers: Buffers can be uncompressed, buffers can be

> compressed with the``lz4`` compression codec, or buffers can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
compressed with the ``lz4`` compression codec, or buffers can
```

> compressed with the``lz4`` compression codec, or buffers can

Reviewer 3: How about specifying that this ```` ``lz4`` ```` means LZ4 frame format ( https://github.com/lz4/lz4/blob/dev/doc/lz4_Frame_format.md ) not LZ4 block format ( https://github.com/lz4/lz4/blob/dev/doc/lz4_Block_format.md ) explicitly?

See also: https://github.com/apache/arrow/blob/50219ef69f712ca12fa5c85367a4cae9776d1c99/format/Message.fbs#L46-L49

be compressed with the ``zstd`` compression codec. Buffers in
the flat sequence of a message body must be either all
uncompressed or all compressed separately using the same codec.

The difference between compressed and uncompressed buffers in the
serialized form is as follows:

> * If the buffers in the ``RecordBatch`` message are **compressed**

Reviewer 3: Can we make the ```` ``RecordBatch`` ```` part as a link to https://arrow.apache.org/docs/format/Columnar.html#recordbatch-message ?

.. note::

  ``lz4`` compression codec means the
  `LZ4 frame format <https://github.com/lz4/lz4/blob/dev/doc/lz4_Frame_format.md>`_
  and should not to be confused with
  `"raw" (also called "block") format <https://github.com/lz4/lz4/blob/dev/doc/lz4_Block_format.md>`_.

The difference between compressed and uncompressed buffers in the
serialized form is as follows:

* If the buffers in the :ref:`ipc-recordbatch-message` are **compressed**

  - the ``data header`` includes the length and memory offset
    of each **compressed buffer** in the record batch's body

  - the ``body`` includes a flat sequence of **compressed buffers**
    together with the **length of uncompressed buffer** as a 64-bit
    little-endian signed integer stored in the first 8 bytes for each
    buffer in the sequence

* If the buffers in the :ref:`ipc-recordbatch-message` are **uncompressed**

  - the ``data header`` includes the length and memory offset
    of each **uncompressed buffer** in the record batch's body

  - the ``body`` includes a flat sequence of **uncompressed buffers**
    with the first 8 bytes empty or equal to ``-1`` to indicate that
    the buffer is uncompressed

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. note::

  Some Arrow implementations lack support for buffer compression. Some
  applications compress Arrow IPC streams instead of compressing buffers.
```

Reviewer: @felipecrv anything else you'd suggest adding to this note?

Reviewer 4: I would extend the note to this:

> Some Arrow implementations are not able to produce or consume IPC streams with compressed buffers in some or all buffer compression formats listed above. Applications that already make use of compression in the protocol they use to transport Arrow IPC streams SHOULD avoid double compression. Putting Arrow IPC streams with compressed buffers into another compressed data stream has very diminished returns.

Reviewer: Thanks @felipecrv! I rephrased this slightly and incorporated into my suggestion above.

Reviewer: @AlenkaF Let me know whether it's OK to include this note. The context behind this is that Felipe and I are working on #40465 and in HTTP services it is very common to use HTTP compression facilities to compress binary responses. We think it makes sense to add this note here to help clearly distinguish between Arrow buffer compression vs. compression applied by some other protocol to Arrow IPC data.

Reviewer 2: What does "double compression" means here?

Reviewer: @mapleFU It means "twice compressing the same data" (compressing the buffers and also compressing the stream)

    together with the **length of uncompressed buffer** as a 64-bit
    little-endian signed integer stored in the first 8 bytes for each
    buffer in the sequence

* If the buffers in the :ref:`ipc-recordbatch-message` are **uncompressed**

  - the ``data header`` includes the length and memory offset
    of each **uncompressed buffer** in the record batch's body

  - the ``body`` includes a flat sequence of **uncompressed buffers**
    with the first 8 bytes empty or equal to ``-1`` to indicate that
    the buffer is uncompressed

.. note::

  Some Arrow implementations lack support for producing and consuming
  IPC data with compressed buffers using one or either of the codecs
  listed above. See :doc:`../status` for details.

  Some applications might apply compression in the protocol they use
  to store or transport Arrow IPC data. (For example, an HTTP server
  might serve gzip-compressed Arrow IPC streams.) Applications that
  already use compression in their storage or transport protocols
  should avoid using buffer compression. Double compression typically
  worsens performance and does not substantially improve compression

>   ratios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ratios.
  
```

.. note::

   ``lz4`` compression codec means the
   `LZ4 frame format <https://github.com/lz4/lz4/blob/dev/doc/lz4_Frame_format.md>`_
   and should not to be confused with
   `"raw" (also called "block") format <https://github.com/lz4/lz4/blob/dev/doc/lz4_Block_format.md>`_.

The difference between compressed and uncompressed buffers in the
serialized form is as follows:

* If the buffers in the :ref:`ipc-recordbatch-message` are **compressed**

  - the ``data header`` includes the length and memory offset
    of each **compressed buffer** in the record batch's body

  - the ``body`` includes a flat sequence of **compressed buffers**
    together with the **length of uncompressed buffer** as a 64-bit
    little-endian signed integer stored in the first 8 bytes for each
    buffer in the sequence

* If the buffers in the :ref:`ipc-recordbatch-message` are **uncompressed**

  - the ``data header`` includes the length and memory offset
    of each **uncompressed buffer** in the record batch's body

  - the ``body`` includes a flat sequence of **uncompressed buffers**
    with the first 8 bytes empty or equal to ``-1`` to indicate that

>     the buffer is uncompressed

Author: Hm, reading Message.fbs I must admit I was sure `-1` signals the uncompressed buffer in a sequence of compressed ones. Because all buffers need to be compressed by the same codec I was sure it also means that they all should be compressed or not. `-1` would be a bit redundant in case we know all buffers are not compressed, but thought this is needed because in any case (compressed or uncompressed) there are first 8 bytes present to store this information.

So if I understand correctly there is no need for a separate **uncompressed** bullet point (or I could remove the 8 byte info that is wrong and keep the second bullet point) and `-1` or empty info needs to be added to the **compressed** bullet point?

>     the buffer is uncompressed

Author: https://github.com/apache/arrow/pull/43950/commits/99b7db5823c4ae1f66d2cb28d62a255c7e36e515

>     the buffer is uncompressed

Reviewer 5: Oh, apologies, I see I made an unfortunate typo in my comment above .. My first sentence was about the **un**compressed case, not the compressed case (so it is in the uncompressed case there is no leading 8 bytes with the length).

But I think you got it anyway seeing the updated text, which looks good.

And I think it is fine to keep the bullet point with the uncompressed case. It might now be a bit "trivial" but I think it is still good to explicitly contrast it with the compressed case.

    buffer 13: col2    data

Compression
-----------

There are three different options for compression of record batch
body buffers: Buffers can be uncompressed, buffers can be
compressed with the ``lz4`` compression codec, or buffers can
be compressed with the ``zstd`` compression codec. Buffers in
the flat sequence of a message body must be either all
uncompressed or all compressed separately using the same codec.

.. note::

>   ``lz4`` compression codec means the
>   `LZ4 frame format <https://github.com/lz4/lz4/blob/dev/doc/lz4_Frame_format.md>`_
>   and should not to be confused with
>   `"raw" (also called "block") format <https://github.com/lz4/lz4/blob/dev/doc/lz4_Block_format.md>`_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   ``lz4`` compression codec means the
   `LZ4 frame format <https://github.com/lz4/lz4/blob/dev/doc/lz4_Frame_format.md>`_
   and should not to be confused with
   `"raw" (also called "block") format <https://github.com/lz4/lz4/blob/dev/doc/lz4_Block_format.md>`_.
```

The difference between compressed and uncompressed buffers in the
serialized form is as follows:

* If the buffers in the :ref:`ipc-recordbatch-message` are **compressed**

  - the ``data header`` includes the length and memory offset
    of each **compressed buffer** in the record batch's body

  - the ``body`` includes a flat sequence of **compressed buffers**
    together with the **length of uncompressed buffer** as a 64-bit
    little-endian signed integer stored in the first 8 bytes for each
    buffer in the sequence

* If the buffers in the :ref:`ipc-recordbatch-message` are **uncompressed**

  - the ``data header`` includes the length and memory offset
    of each **uncompressed buffer** in the record batch's body

  - the ``body`` includes a flat sequence of **uncompressed buffers**
    with the first 8 bytes empty or equal to ``-1`` to indicate that
    the buffer is uncompressed

.. note::

>   Some Arrow implementations lack support for producing and consuming
>   IPC data with compressed buffers using one or either of the codecs
>   listed above. See :doc:`../status` for details.
> 
>   Some applications might apply compression in the protocol they use
>   to store or transport Arrow IPC data. (For example, an HTTP server
>   might serve gzip-compressed Arrow IPC streams.) Applications that
>   already use compression in their storage or transport protocols
>   should avoid using buffer compression. Double compression typically
>   worsens performance and does not substantially improve compression
>   ratios.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Some Arrow implementations lack support for producing and consuming
   IPC data with compressed buffers using one or either of the codecs
   listed above. See :doc:`../status` for details.

   Some applications might apply compression in the protocol they use
   to store or transport Arrow IPC data. (For example, an HTTP server
   might serve gzip-compressed Arrow IPC streams.) Applications that
   already use compression in their storage or transport protocols
   should avoid using buffer compression. Double compression typically
   worsens performance and does not substantially improve compression
   ratios.
```

    buffer 13: col2    data

Compression
-----------

There are three different options for compression of record batch
body buffers: Buffers can be uncompressed, buffers can be
compressed with the ``lz4`` compression codec, or buffers can be
compressed with the ``zstd`` compression codec. Buffers in the
flat sequence of a message body must be compressed separately using

> the same codec. Specific buffer in the sequence of compressed
> buffers can be left uncompressed in case compression does not yield
> appreciable savings.

Reviewer: Minor textual suggestion
```suggestion
the same codec. Specific buffers in the sequence of compressed
buffers may be left uncompressed (for example if compressing those
specific buffers would not appreciably reduce their size).
```

> The codec or the compression type used is defined in the ``data header```

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The compression type used is defined in the ``data header```
```

(one of two terms seems sufficient here?)

> The compression type used is defined in the ``data header```

Reviewer: Remove errant backtick
```suggestion
The compression type used is defined in the ``data header``
```

> of the :ref:`ipc-recordbatch-message` in the optional ``compression``

Reviewer 5: It being optional means that the default is uncompressed, I suppose?

Author: Will add.

field.

.. note::

   ``lz4`` compression codec means the
   `LZ4 frame format <https://github.com/lz4/lz4/blob/dev/doc/lz4_Frame_format.md>`_
   and should not to be confused with
   `"raw" (also called "block") format <https://github.com/lz4/lz4/blob/dev/doc/lz4_Block_format.md>`_.

The difference between compressed and uncompressed buffers in the
serialized form is as follows:

* If the buffers in the :ref:`ipc-recordbatch-message` are **compressed**

  - the ``data header`` includes the length and memory offset
    of each **compressed buffer** in the record batch's body together
    with the compression type

  - the ``body`` includes a flat sequence of **compressed buffers**
    together with the **length of the uncompressed buffer** as a 64-bit

>     little-endian signed integer stored in the first 8 bytes for each

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    little-endian signed integer stored in the first 8 bytes of each
```

>     buffer in the sequence. The first 8 bytes can be left empty or equal

Reviewer 5: Where do we state it that it can also be empty? My understanding is that only -1 is allowed to indicate the buffer is uncompressed (otherwise you cannot know this)

Author: Looking at the Message.fbs I can't find any record of such info either - somehow it turned up in my notes, sorry for that. And thank you for your sharp review! Will correct.

>     buffer in the sequence. The first 8 bytes can equal ``-1`` to indicate

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    buffer in the sequence. This uncompressed length can be set to ``-1`` to indicate
```
